# rag
- indexing: includes parsing, chunking, creating embeddings, and creating the index
    - Document obj: a container for an entire file (eg a whole pdf). Holds both text and metadata
    - Node: a chunk of a document obj. Holds text (or embeddings of that text), metadata, relationships with the doc.
    - Collection: a vector db can have many collections. Each collection has nodes from different documents. Each collection has a separate vector space for the embeddings.
    - Index: a data structure that allows you to retrieve easily from 1 collection. Each collection has its own index.
- llamaindex
    - Does different parsing/chunking for you based on your file
    - You just need 2 lines of code that uses SimpleDirectoryReader and VectorStoreIndex
    - Then you can use it just for retrieving, ie index.as_retriever(), or for both retrieving and inference, ie index.as_query_engine()
    - For llamaindex, set arbitrary embed and inference models via Settings.embed_model and Settings.llm (default is openai for both)
    - If your app is 90% RAG (reading pdfs), use llamaindex for inference as well; otherwise use llamaindex to index/retrieve and langchain for inference and orchestration

# regular rag vs graphrag
- tools
    1. regular rag
        - indexing tool: LlamaIndex (VectorStoreIndex)
        - embedding model: many options...
        - vector db: pgvector, pinecone, chroma, etc.
        - retrieval engine: cosine similarity search
    2. graphrag
        - text-to-graph tool: LlamaIndex (PropertyGraphIndex), LangGraph
        - model: llm (text-to-graph is powered by llms)
        - graph db: Neo4j (industry standard), Memgraph (fast), Kuzu (no infra; runs in your app; just add a file)
        - query engine: Cypher (Graph Query Language) generated by llm
- steps
    1. graphrag
        - ingestion: give text to llm -> llm extracts entities/relations -> store entities/relations to graph db
        - retrieval: llm reads user query -> llm writes cypher specifying entities & relationships -> db return results
            - but how does the llm know the terms (entity & relationship names) used in the graph to generate the correct cypher?
                - for entities: we index them (b/c usually there are lots of entities) so that the llm can retrieve the names b/f generating cypher
                - for relationships:
                    - usually a graph have much fewer relationships than graphs, so we just give the names of all our relationships to the llm as a prompt b/f generating cypher
                    - but if there are lots of relationships, we index them too